an unlikely location for this new
high-tech co-educational research
university campus to Walt Saudi Arabia
cooking Abdullah it's a dream come true
more than three thousand guests from all
over the world were invited to the
opening ceremony the king greeted
foreign dignitaries and a number of
heads of state in a large tent close to
the new university among them the
Sudanese and Turkish presidents the
Jordanian King and other Middle Eastern
leaders the King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology or cows has
state-of-the-art facilities the hope is
that it will produce scientists and
engineers to fill the country's huge
workforce shortage in these areas the
King stated vision is for the
institution to become a beacon of
knowledge the new modern House of Wisdom
and to allow research to flourish social
restrictions that apply to women outside
the campus gates will not apply inside
on the university grounds women are not
obligated to wear the abaya the
kingdom's traditional black tunic which
covers them from head to toe here they
are free to put on Western clothes it's
a campus you can do whatever you want in
here and it's been told before that it's
a campus again ladies can do they can
drive they can work wherever they want
it's their choice they will come here
this is not without strong opposition
from religious leaders and other
hardliners in a country where men and
women barely interact in public life the
liberal minded approach of cows has
caused nervousness a mixed gender
student population is going to be
difficult for many Saudis to accept
they're unhappy because they don't want
women to to leave the house they don't
want women to progress they don't want
women to work they don't want women they
want women to be all covered up and so
they don't accept to have such an
environment in Saudi Arabia the real
question is will cows remain a gated
rarity or whether it will become the
heart of real change in Saudi Arabia
secluded society Sabina castle Franko al
Jazeera - all